---
layout: post
title: Treat your resume as code
---

Although debatable whether the resume still has a place amongst LinkedIn and
Github profiles, I like to keep mine up to date and at hand to attach to
introductions and job applications.

Every time I've changed jobs, or considered doing so, I've encountered the pain
of having to make changes to my outdated resume. Whilst thinking about how to keep my
resume up to date I came up with the metaphor of treating my resume as code and
this post lists the benefits of doing so.

## Monthly resume review

I've schedule a monthly recurring event in my calendar to review my resume and
keep it up to date on where I am at in my career. This enables me to add newly
acquired skills and projects I've worked on whilst the experiences are still
fresh in my mind.

## Maintenance

Its easier to keep an application running smoothly up to date by continuously
spending time refactoring and updating dependencies. The same follows for
keeping a resume up to date. Why not spend 30 minutes every month and always
have an up to date version, than having to scramble and spend hours when you
eventually need to send your resume to a potential employer.

## Keeping your career on track

Another benefit of routinely reading and editing your resume is that you get to
check whether your profile is moving towards where you want to be. You might
also discover that your career is stagnant if you don't have anything useful to
add over a period of time, a sign that you are not learning and growing in your
current role. Have you been able to add to your resume in the last 6 months? If
not it might worth taking a closer look at whether your current situation is
aligned with your career goals. Are you too invested in one stack? Does your
skills include outdated elements like DHTML and Dreamweaver?

## A resume should hint at the future

I like to include a brief part in my resume on what I'm currently learning to
give an idea of where my career and skill set is heading. This enables possible
employers to see that your skill set is not stagnant. What skills or
technologies are you currently working on?

## Keep a version history to watch your career progress

By keeping a version history of your changes, you will be able to see at a
glance what changes you made in a given time frame. This is useful when doing a
yearly review etc. Being able to tell exactly which things you've learned in a
year is highly valuable in performance reviews.

I'm using Google Docs for my resume and it includes a nice browsable version
history of edits. Another solution could be to use markdown or latex and check
it into Git.

## Conclusion

Reviewing my resume every month for the last year has worked out great for me
and I implore you to try it out for yourself. If you have any good career
practices I'd love to hear them.
